# Assignment Description
Lecture: Starting to Code 4: Your First C Program

Objective: Display output in a C program

### Assignment Description

You’ve decided that Chemistry is an awesome field to explore. Since we recently celebrated the 150th anniversary of Mendeleev’s periodic table of the elements, you decide to go look at the (current) periodic table of the elements. You’re so excited by the beauty and elegance of that arrangement that you decide to print out the symbols for the first 10 elements in the periodic table of the elements.

### Getting Started

Create a new C project named whatever you want in Visual Studio using the Windows Desktop Wizard or in Xcode.

If you're using Visual Studio, add a main.c file to your project; you can use the main.c template I provided on Canvas if you’d like. If you’re using Xcode, Xcode automatically generates a main.c file for you.

### Requirements

Your solution must do the following:

    Print the symbol for each of the first 10 elements of the periodic table, with each symbol appearing on its own line in the output
    Do NOT print anything else in your output; if you do, you’ll confuse the automated grader and you’ll get a bad grade!

In case you’re having a hard time understanding what your output should look like, here are the first 3 lines of required output (you’ll have exactly 10 lines of output):

```
H
He
Li
```

Make sure you include a \n after the 10th element.

<br>

### Running Your Code in Your IDE

Visual Studio Users: Run your code using: *Debug > Start Without Debugging* from the top menu bar. When you do that, Visual Studio will show you the shortcut keys you can use to run your code (usually Ctrl+F5 or Ctrl+Shift+B). CAUTION: If you select Debug > Start Debugging, the console window will flash and disappear. You need to use Start Without Debugging.

<br><br>

Xcode Users: For some reason, Xcode doesn’t automatically open up the Console at the bottom when I Command+R to run my project (so I have no place to type anything). To display the Console after you Command+R, select View > Debug Area > Activate Console. You should now be able to click in the right-hand pane in the Console and type as described above to run your code.

<br><br>

### Submitting Your Solution
- Click on the gray box below that says Load Graded Exercise 1: It's Elemental in a new window. **(only in Canvas)**
- Click on the link for this graded assignment from the list of Live Coursework and click the green Submit button under Actions on the left on the assignment page. Upload your main.c file by clicking the Choose File button and navigating to it or by dragging that file onto the upload box. Click the green Submit button on the bottom right of the dialog box.
- Once the test case(s) for the assignment have been run (which typically happens pretty quickly), you can check your results for each test case and your overall score at the top right of the Test Cases section. If you’re happy with your results, you’re done.

If you need (or want) to improve your score, you can look at the test case results, modify your code as appropriate, and resubmit again. If you click on a specific test case, you can get additional information about the output generated by your submission, the expected output for a correct submission, and the difference between the two outputs (in the Pretty Diff section at the bottom of the dialog box).

*All assignments in the course are set for unlimited submissions, so you can resubmit as many times as you want until the due date/time. The grade you’ll receive for the assignment will be the highest grade you achieved across all your submissions for the assignment.*

<br>

# Additional materials

[Online Periodic Table](https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/periodic-table/)
