# Assignment Description
Lecture: Data Structures, Variables, and Constants 5: Floating-Point Data Types

Objective: Declare floating-point variables and display output of floating-point operations

### Getting Started

Create a new C project named whatever you want in Visual Studio using the Windows Desktop Wizard or in Xcode.

If you're using Visual Studio, add a main.c file to your project; you can use the main.c template I provided on Canvas if you’d like. If you’re using Xcode, Xcode automatically generates a main.c file for you.

### Requirements

#### Problem 1 - Output a score

Declare a variable named `score` of type `int`.

Store a score of 34567 in this variable.

Add a line of code that displays the score to the user.

#### Problem 2 - Output a percentage

Define a constant named `MAX_SCORE` with a value of 100000.

Declare a variable named `percent` of type `float` and store the percentage calculated by dividing `score` by `MAX_SCORE`. Remember how integer division works in C, use type casting as appropriate, and make sure your percentage is between 0 and 100.

Display the percentage to the user with 2 decimal points of precision.

#### Problem 3 - Output a rounded percentage

Display the percentage to the user with 0 decimal points of precision.

### Required Output Format

The automated grader requires your output to be in the following format:

```
score
percentage
rounded percentage
```

We’d typically label our output to tell the user what those numbers are, but that will just confuse the automated grader.

For example, if the score was 12345, your output should be

```
12345
12.35
12
```

Those are obviously not the correct numbers for this assignment!

### Submitting Your Solution
- Click on the gray box below that says Load Graded Exercise 3: Floating-Point Variables and Operations in a new window. **(only in Canvas)**
- Click on the link for this graded assignment from the list of Live Coursework and click the green Submit button under Actions on the left on the assignment page. Upload your main.c file by clicking the Choose File button and navigating to it or by dragging that file onto the upload box. Click the green Submit button on the bottom right of the dialog box.
- Once the test case(s) for the assignment have been run (which typically happens pretty quickly), you can check your results for each test case and your overall score at the top right of the Test Cases section. If you’re happy with your results, you’re done.

If you need (or want) to improve your score, you can look at the test case results, modify your code as appropriate, and resubmit again. If you click on a specific test case, you can get additional information about the output generated by your submission, the expected output for a correct submission, and the difference between the two outputs (in the Pretty Diff section at the bottom of the dialog box).

*All assignments in the course are set for unlimited submissions, so you can resubmit as many times as you want until the due date/time. The grade you’ll receive for the assignment will be the highest grade you achieved across all your submissions for the assignment.*
<br>

