# Assignment Description

Lecture: Data Types, Variables, and Constants 8: User-Defined Data Types

Objective: Define a user-defined data type, declare variables of that data type, and display output of operations using those variables

### Getting Started

Create a new C project named whatever you want in Visual Studio using the Windows Desktop Wizard or in Xcode.

Download the Graded Exercise 5 Materials zip file from Canvas and unzip it somewhere on your computer. Copy and paste the contents of the included main.c file over the main.c file in your new project. The code I've provided includes a function that gets a floating point number from the user so we can use latitude and longitude inputs at runtime for the automated grader (and as you test your code). Make sure you only add your new code in the places indicated by the comments in that file.

### Requirements

#### Problem 1 - Define user-defined data type

Define a new data type that stores the GPS coordinates of a point. Specifically, include members for the latitude and longitude (in decimal degrees, not in degrees, minutes, and seconds).

Note: Lecture Data Structures, Variables, and Constants 8 calls the "pieces" of the struct fields, but they're also called members. Field and member are interchangeable terms that mean the same thing.

Provide a `typedef` for your new type to make it easier to declare variables of that type.

#### Problem 2 - Declare and initialize variables

Declare a variable of your new data type to store the GPS coordinates of UCCS and initialize it using curly brace initialization. UCCS is at latitude 38.8936471, longitude -104.8003126.

Note

I used float for my struct fields, so when I assigned values to those fields I had to add f at the end of the floating point literals. For example, the literal `1.23` is a double, while the literal `1.23f` is a float.

Declare another variable of your new data type to store the GPS coordinates of a place to visit and initialize it by calling the `getFloat` function I provided for each of the members.

#### Problem 3 - Calculate latitude and longitude differences

Calculate and output the differences in both latitude and longitude between UCCS and the place to visit. Make sure you do the subtraction in the correct order so you're calculating how you'd have to change those values to get from UCCS to the place to visit. You should print the differences using the output format discussed below.

### Required Output Format

Your single line of output should be the latitude difference (to 6 decimal places), followed by a comma, followed by the longitude difference (to 6 decimal spaces). For example, the difference between UCCS and London would be printed as:

`12.613705,104.672562`

Note that there are no spaces in the line above; it's just the latitude difference, a comma, and the longitude difference.

### Test Case Inputs

Here are the latitudes and longitudes the automated grader will use to test your code (I used https://www.latlong.net/ (Links to an external site.)) to pick some places that are interesting to me. You'll have to figure out the expected results for each of the test case inputs to make sure your code is working properly.

```
51.507351
-0.127758

35.689487
139.691711

-33.868820
151.209290

44.494888
11.342616
```

### Submitting Your Solution
- Click on the gray box below that says Load Graded Exercise 5: User-Defined Data Types in a new window. **(only in Canvas)**
- Click on the link for this graded assignment from the list of Live Coursework and click the green Submit button under Actions on the left on the assignment page. Upload your main.c file by clicking the Choose File button and navigating to it or by dragging that file onto the upload box. Click the green Submit button on the bottom right of the dialog box.
- Once the test case(s) for the assignment have been run (which typically happens pretty quickly), you can check your results for each test case and your overall score at the top right of the Test Cases section. If you’re happy with your results, you’re done.

If you need (or want) to improve your score, you can look at the test case results, modify your code as appropriate, and resubmit again. If you click on a specific test case, you can get additional information about the output generated by your submission, the expected output for a correct submission, and the difference between the two outputs (in the Pretty Diff section at the bottom of the dialog box).

*All assignments in the course are set for unlimited submissions, so you can resubmit as many times as you want until the due date/time. The grade you’ll receive for the assignment will be the highest grade you achieved across all your submissions for the assignment.*
<br>

