# Assignment Description

Programming Assignments are larger problems for you to solve to really test your understanding of the course material.

Imagine you’re working on developing a game where tanks fire shells hoping to destroy the enemy tanks. One of the challenges of the game is that the player has to predict where the shell will land after following a parabolic trajectory. While you may not have taken physics, the equations are straightforward and you should be able to develop a solution that will accurately calculate the shell path given a starting shell speed and trajectory (angle of fire).

### Physics Equations (Physics for Game Developers, David Bourg)

theta = ?                   // initial angle the user inputs

speed = ?                   // initial speed the user inputs

g = 9.81 m/s<sup>2</sup>              // acceleration due to gravity

v<sub>ox</sub> = speed * cos(theta)    // x component of the velocity at start

v<sub>oy</sub> = speed * sin(theta)    // y component of the velocity at start

t = v<sub>oy</sub>/ g                  // time until shell reaches apex

h = v<sub>oy</sub><sup>2</sup> / (2g)             // height of shell at apex

d<sub>x</sub> = v<sub>ox</sub>*2t                 // distance shell travels horizontally (assuming launch and target elevations are equal)

Using substitution, you should be able determine the distance the shell will rise and travel horizontally.

### Instructions

Create a new C project named whatever you want in Visual Studio using the Windows Desktop Wizard or in Xcode.

Download the Programming Assignment 1 Materials zip file from Canvas and unzip it somewhere on your computer. Copy and paste the contents of the included main.c file over the main.c file in your new project. The code I've provided includes a function that gets a floating point number from the user so we can use theta and speed inputs at runtime for the automated grader (and as you test your code). Make sure you only add your new code in the places indicated by the comments in that file.

Your solution must do the following:

- Use the `getFloat` function to get theta, in degrees, from the user and store it in a `float` variable
- WARNING: Convert the angle from degrees to radians! If you don’t, the `cosf` and `sinf`    functions you use later won’t work properly.
- Use the `getFloat` function to get the initial speed from the user and store it in a `float` variable
- Calculate v<sub>ox</sub> using the `math.h cosf` function. For example:

`float vox = speed * cosf(theta);`

- Calculate v<sub>oy</sub> using the `math.h sinf` function.
- Calculate t
- Calculate h
- Calculate d<sub>x</sub>
- Print the results using the output format described below

You can assume the following:

- The user provides floating point values for theta and speed
- The user only provides positive numbers

### Helpful Hints

Write 5 or fewer lines of code, save, compile, test, repeat!  Don’t try to write a whole block of code at once – implement one small chunk at a time.

- Begin with the first part of the requirements, then implement one requirement at a time
- Use the debugger to check your intermediate values to confirm your calculations along the way; that way, you can make sure you’re calculating each value correctly as you go along. Of course you can also use printf to print the intermediate values if you prefer – just delete the extra ones before turning in your work.

### Required Output Format

Your single line of output should be the height (to 4 decimal places), followed by a comma, followed by the horizontal distance (to 4 decimal spaces). For example, the output for a shell fired at 45 degrees with a speed of 10 would be printed as:

`2.5484,10.1937`

Note that there are no spaces in the line above; it's just the height, a comma, and the horizontal distance.

### Submitting Your Solution

- Click on the gray box below that says Load Programming Assignment 1: Ready, Aim, FIRE! in a new window. **(only in Canvas)**
- Click on the link for this graded assignment from the list of Live Coursework and click the green Submit button under Actions on the left on the assignment page. Upload your main.c file by clicking the Choose File button and navigating to it or by dragging that file onto the upload box. Click the green Submit button on the bottom right of the dialog box.
- Once the test case(s) for the assignment have been run (which typically happens pretty quickly), you can check your results for each test case and your overall score at the top right of the Test Cases section. If you’re happy with your results, you’re done.

If you need (or want) to improve your score, you can look at the test case results, modify your code as appropriate, and resubmit again. If you click on a specific test case, you can get additional information about the output generated by your submission, the expected output for a correct submission, and the difference between the two outputs (in the Pretty Diff section at the bottom of the dialog box).

*All assignments in the course are set for unlimited submissions, so you can resubmit as many times as you want until the due date/time. The grade you’ll receive for the assignment will be the highest grade you achieved across all your submissions for the assignment.*
<br>

