# Assignment Description

Lecture: Data Types, Variables, and Constants 5: Floating-Point Data Types

Objective: Implement basic floating-point calculations

If you're using Visual Studio (as most of you are), add the following lines of code just before your #include preprocessing directives:

`#define _CRT_SECURE_NO_WARNINGS`

Note that this `#define` is already included in the main.c template I’ve provided to you, so if you’re using that you don’t have to add anything.

### Getting Started

Create a new C project named whatever you want in Visual Studio using the Windows Desktop Wizard or in Xcode.

If you're using Visual Studio, add a main.c file to your project; you can use the main.c template I provided on Canvas if you’d like. If you’re using Xcode, Xcode automatically generates a main.c file for you.

### Requirements

#### Problem 1 - Convert between temperatures

Declare three `float` variables for this program: one variable for the original temperature in Fahrenheit, one variable for the calculated temperature in Celsius, and one variable for the calculated temperature in Fahrenheit (when you convert from Celsius back to Fahrenheit). Be sure to name your variables appropriately.

Write code to get the original temperature in Fahrenheit from the user. Assuming you declared your first variable as a `float` named `originalFahrenheit`, here's the code you'd use to get the original temperature from the user:

`scanf("%f", &originalFahrenheit);`

The scanf function is used to read keyboard input. We provide a format specifier as the first argument to indicate the data type we're reading in. For the second argument we provide the name of the variable we want to put the result into preceded by &.  The &, called the address of operator, provides the address of the variable in memory. The scanf function needs the address of the variable, not just its name, because of the internal implementation of that function. Don't forget the &

We’d typically print a prompt before reading in user input, but that will confuse the automated grader, so don’t provide a prompt.

Write code to calculate the temperature in Celsius, store the result in your calculated Celsius variable, and display the calculated Celsius temperature to the user. The equation for converting Fahrenheit to Celsius is:

Celsius temperature = (Fahrenheit temperature - 32) / 9 * 5

Write code to calculate the temperature in Fahrenheit, store the result in your calculated Fahrenheit variable (NOT your original Fahrenheit variable), and display the calculated Fahrenheit temperature to the user. The equation for converting Celsius to Fahrenheit  is:

Fahrenheit temperature = Celsius temperature * 9 / 5 + 32

Test your code with the following values for Fahrenheit: -40, 0, 32, 212

### Required Output Format

The automated grader requires your output to be in the following format:

```
calculated celsius temperature
calculated fahrenheit temperature
```

We’d typically label our output to tell the user what those numbers are, but that will just confuse the automated grader.

For example, if the original fahrenheit temperature was 32, your output should be

```
0.000000
32.000000
```

### Submitting Your Solution
- Click on the gray box below that says Load Graded Exercise 4: Floating-Point Calculations in a new window. **(only in Canvas)**
- Click on the link for this graded assignment from the list of Live Coursework and click the green Submit button under Actions on the left on the assignment page. Upload your main.c file by clicking the Choose File button and navigating to it or by dragging that file onto the upload box. Click the green Submit button on the bottom right of the dialog box.
- Once the test case(s) for the assignment have been run (which typically happens pretty quickly), you can check your results for each test case and your overall score at the top right of the Test Cases section. If you’re happy with your results, you’re done.

If you need (or want) to improve your score, you can look at the test case results, modify your code as appropriate, and resubmit again. If you click on a specific test case, you can get additional information about the output generated by your submission, the expected output for a correct submission, and the difference between the two outputs (in the Pretty Diff section at the bottom of the dialog box).

*All assignments in the course are set for unlimited submissions, so you can resubmit as many times as you want until the due date/time. The grade you’ll receive for the assignment will be the highest grade you achieved across all your submissions for the assignment.*
<br>

