# Assignment Description
Lecture: Data Types, Variables, and Constants 4: Integer Data Types

Objective: Declare integer variables and display output of integer operations

### Getting Started

Create a new C project named whatever you want in Visual Studio using the Windows Desktop Wizard or in Xcode.

If you're using Visual Studio, add a main.c file to your project; you can use the main.c template I provided on Canvas if you’d like. If you’re using Xcode, Xcode automatically generates a main.c file for you.

### Requirements

#### Problem 1 - Output the age of someone born on yesterday's date in 2002

Declare a variable named `youngAge` of type `int`.

Calculate and store the appropriate age in this variable. You should do this calculation in your program, not in your head or on your phone.

Add a line of code that displays the young age to the user.

#### Problem 2 - Output the age of someone born on yesterday's date in 1962

Declare a variable named `oldAge` of type `int`.

Calculate and store the appropriate age in this variable. You should do this calculation in your program, not in your head or on your phone.

Add a line of code that displays the old age to the user.

#### Problem 3 - Output how much older old age is compared to young age

Add a line of code that displays the difference between old age and the young age to the user. You can use an additional variable to store the difference then output the difference variable or you can calculate the difference in your call to the `printf` function.

### Required Output Format

The automated grader requires your output to be in the following format:

```youngAge
oldAge
ageDifference
```

We’d typically label our output to tell the user what those numbers are, but that will just confuse the automated grader.

For example, if the value of the youngAge variable is 40 and the value of the oldAge variable is 60, your output should be

```
40
60
20
```

Those are obviously not the correct numbers for this assignment!

### Submitting Your Solution
- Click on the gray box below that says Load Graded Exercise 2: Integer Variables and Operations in a new window. **(only in Canvas)**
- Click on the link for this graded assignment from the list of Live Coursework and click the green Submit button under Actions on the left on the assignment page. Upload your main.c file by clicking the Choose File button and navigating to it or by dragging that file onto the upload box. Click the green Submit button on the bottom right of the dialog box.
- Once the test case(s) for the assignment have been run (which typically happens pretty quickly), you can check your results for each test case and your overall score at the top right of the Test Cases section. If you’re happy with your results, you’re done.

If you need (or want) to improve your score, you can look at the test case results, modify your code as appropriate, and resubmit again. If you click on a specific test case, you can get additional information about the output generated by your submission, the expected output for a correct submission, and the difference between the two outputs (in the Pretty Diff section at the bottom of the dialog box).

*All assignments in the course are set for unlimited submissions, so you can resubmit as many times as you want until the due date/time. The grade you’ll receive for the assignment will be the highest grade you achieved across all your submissions for the assignment.*
<br>

