# Assignment Description

Lecture: Selection 2: If Statements

Objective: Practice using various forms of the if statement

### Getting Started

Create a new C project named whatever you want in Visual Studio using the Windows Desktop Wizard or in Xcode.

If you're using Visual Studio, add a main.c file to your project; you can use the main.c template I provided on Canvas if you’d like. If you’re using Xcode, Xcode automatically generates a main.c file for you.

### Requirements

#### Problem 1 - Print positive message

Read in an integer from the user; don't prompt for the user input, because that will confuse the automated grader. Look at the `getFloat` function I provided in Graded Exercise 5 to see how to read in user input. Be sure to change the format specifier from `%f` to `%d` in your call to the `scanf` function to read in an `int` instead of a `float`.

Print `Positive` if the number is positive (including 0).

#### Problem 2 - Print positive or negatie message

Read in another integer from the user; don't prompt for the user input, because that will confuse the automated grader.

Print `Positive` if the number is positive (including 0) and print `Negative` if the number is negative.

#### Problem 3 - Output how much older old age is compared to young age

Output a menu of choices for the user. It should look like the following
```
**************
Menu:
N   New Game
L   Load Game
O   Options
Q   Quit
**************
```
Make sure you print out the menu EXACTLY as shown or you'll fail all the test cases in the automated grader. There are 14 asterisks at the top and bottom and 2 spaces between each option and the description of what the option does.

Read in a `char` from the user; don't prompt for the user input, because that will confuse the automated grader. Look at the `getFloat` function I provided in Graded Exercise 5 to see how to read in user input. Be sure to change the format specifier from `%f` to `%c` in your call to the `scanf` function to read in a `char` instead of a `float`.

Your application should print an appropriate response confirming their choice as follows:

`Starting` if the user enters n

`Loading` if the user enters l

`Options` if the user enters o

`Quitting` if the user enters q

`Invalid` if the user enters an invalid choice

Your solution to this problem should:

- Display the menu
- Read in the user’s choice
- Store the choice in an appropriate variable
- Using an if statement, determine which menu option the user selected, printing an appropriate message for the option selected (accept both upper and lower case characters for each choice)
- If the user enters something other than a menu option, print the invalid message

__**CAUTION**__

With some C implementations (including Visual Studio), the call to the `scanf` function from Problem 2 reads in the number the user entered but leaves the `\n` character from when the user pressed the Enter key sitting on the input stream (the keyboard input) waiting to be processed, That means that the code will get to the part here where you read in the user's menu choice, it will read in `\n` as their input, and tell them they've provided an invalid input even though they didn't provide any input at all.

One solution to this problem is to include a call to the `getchar` function to get rid of the `\n` before reading in the user's menu choice; I did that at the beginning of my Problem 3 code. Even though the getchar function returns a character, you can call it using

`getchar();`

which reads the `\n` character and then just throws it away instead of storing it in a variable.

### Submitting Your Solution
- Click on the gray box below that says Load Graded Exercise 6: If Statements in a new window. **(only in Canvas)**
- Click on the link for this graded assignment from the list of Live Coursework and click the green Submit button under Actions on the left on the assignment page. Upload your main.c file by clicking the Choose File button and navigating to it or by dragging that file onto the upload box. Click the green Submit button on the bottom right of the dialog box.
- Once the test case(s) for the assignment have been run (which typically happens pretty quickly), you can check your results for each test case and your overall score at the top right of the Test Cases section. If you’re happy with your results, you’re done.

If you need (or want) to improve your score, you can look at the test case results, modify your code as appropriate, and resubmit again. If you click on a specific test case, you can get additional information about the output generated by your submission, the expected output for a correct submission, and the difference between the two outputs (in the Pretty Diff section at the bottom of the dialog box).

*All assignments in the course are set for unlimited submissions, so you can resubmit as many times as you want until the due date/time. The grade you’ll receive for the assignment will be the highest grade you achieved across all your submissions for the assignment.*
<br>

